---
title: "Multiplexed profiling facilitates robust m6A quantification at site, 
gene and sample resolution"
collection: articles
permalink: /publication/2021-04-25_m6ASeq_V2
excerpt: "In this paper we present an improvement over immunoprecipitation-based
methods on "
date: 2021-04-25
venue: 'Nature Methods'
paperurl: 'TBD' 
citation: 'Status: Accepted.'
---

Summary
========

* m6A-seq2 is a multiplexed immunoprecipitation-RNA-seq coupled method that 
measures m6A across the epitranscriptome reducing technical variability, cost,
and labor.
* m6A-seq2 allows for sample-level m6A relative quantitation, orthogonal to 
mass-spectrometry methods, as well as gene-level quantitations.
* m6A-seq2 m6A gene-level measurements explains roughly 30% of the variability
in RNA half life on mouse embryonic stem cells.

Abstract
=========

N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is the most prevalent modification of mRNA in mammals
and plays a major role in the post-transcriptional regulation of gene 
expression. To interrogate its functions and dynamics, there is a critical need 
to quantify m6A at three levels of granularity: The modified site, the overall 
m6A levels per gene, and the global levels per sample. Current approaches 
address these needs in a highly limited manner. Here we develop m6A-seq2, 
relying on multiplexed m6A immunoprecipitation of pre-barcoded and pooled 
samples. m6A-seq2 allows a major increase in throughput, while dramatically 
reducing technical variability, requirements of input material, cost, and 
labor. m6A-seq2 is furthermore uniquely capable of providing sample-level 
relative quantitations of m6A, serving as an important, orthogonal alternative 
to mass spectrometry based approaches. Finally, we develop a computational 
approach for gene-level quantitation of m6A. We demonstrate that using this 
metric, roughly 30% of the variability in RNA half-life in mouse embryonic 
stem cells can be explained in terms of m6A levels. This is ~10 fold higher 
than could be observed using previous approaches and establishes m6A as a 
major driver of RNA stability. m6A-seq2 thus provides an experimental and 
analytic framework for dissecting m6A-based regulation at three critical 
resolutions.
